(EARLY REVIEW/SPECULATIVE) Refactoring syntax spec (#429)
unicode-org/message-format-wg: spec/syntax.md

>> {You have a {$foo}!}
>>```
>> 
>> Can also be written as:
>> ```
>> let $foo={|horse|}{You have a {$foo}!}
>> ```
>
> An exception to this is: whitespace inside a _pattern_ is _always_ significant.

A _message_ consists of two parts:
1. an optional list of _declarations_, followed by
2. a _body_

All _messages_ MUST contain a _body_. 
An empty string is not a valid _message_.

> A simple message:
>```
>{Hello, world!}
>```
>The same message defined in a `.properties` file:
>
>```properties
>app.greetings.hello = {Hello, world!}
>```
>
>The same message defined inline in JavaScript:
>
>```js
>let hello = new MessageFormat('{Hello, world!}')
>hello.format()
>```

A _message_ satisfying all rules of the grammar is considered _well-formed_.

Furthermore, a _well-formed_ _message_ is considered _valid_
if it meets additional semantic requirements about its structure, defined below.

### Declarations

A **_declaration_** binds a variable identifier
to the value of an _expression_ within the scope of a _message_.
This local variable can then be used in other _expressions_ within the same _message_.

```abnf
declaration = let s variable [s] "=" [s] expression
```

### Body

> The **_body_** of a message consists of either a _pattern_ or a _selector_.

Reviewer: In line with my other comment about the `match` statement containing selectors and variant, I'd phrase this as:

```suggestion
The **_body_** of a message consists of either a _pattern_ or a _match statement_.
```

various formats regardless of the container's whitespace trimming rules.

> Example. In a Java `.properties` file, the message `hello` has exactly three spaces before and after
> the word "Hello":
> ```properties
> hello = {  Hello  }
> ```

### Text

**_text_** is the translatable content of a _pattern_.
Any Unicode code point is allowed,
except for surrogate code points U+D800 through U+DFFF.
The characters `\`, `{`, and `}` MUST be escaped as `\\`, `\{`, and `\}`.

All code points are preserved. Whitespace in text is significant.

```abnf
text = 1*(text-char / text-escape)
text-char = %x0-5B         ; omit \
          / %x5D-7A        ; omit {
          / %x7C           ; omit }
          / %x7E-D7FF      ; omit surrogates
          / %xE000-10FFFF
```

### Placeholder

A **_placeholder_** is another word for an _expression_ that appears inside of a _pattern_
and which will be replaced during the formatting of the _message_.

### Selector

A **_selector_** selects a specific _pattern_ from a list of available
_variants_ in a _message_.
_Selectors_ provide the ability for a _message_ to use a _pattern_ that 
varies in content or form depending on values determined at runtime.

> A _selector_ consists of a _match_ statement followed by at least one _variant_.

Reviewer: I've always thought about this the other way around: expressions can either be placeholders or selectors, and the `match` statement is where you put multiple selectors into.

Also, I'd consider variants to be part of the `match` statement, rather than follow after it.

So in my mind it's (pseudo-ABNF):

```abnf
match-stmt = 'match' 1*selector 1*variant
```

rather than:

```abnf
selector = 'match' 1*expression 1*variant
```

Author: I like your reformulation very much. It solves a lot of circular jargon problems surrounding what the `expression`s in `selectors` are.
